discount sites like deal extreme
aliexpress and ebay can be a great way
to get awesome deals on used or
off-brand tech products and if you're
like me and you're kind of a gigantic
cheapskate the prospect of saving money
can be pretty enticing
but
today's video is a cautionary one a
buyer beware tale of making sure that
you think critically about a great deal
before pulling the trigger because even
spending one dollar is a waste of money
if you don't get anything useful in
return for example this usb 2 ethernet
adapter that is advertised as being 10
gigabit ready for just over four dollars
a piece is very eye-catching but as we
are going to see a lot of the time
things like this are just too good to be
true
unlike our sponsor thermaltake and their
a500 case which features a modern
minimalistic design brushed aluminum
panels and dual hinge swing tempered
glass doors check it out today at the
link below
[Music]
so you might understandably find
yourself thinking wow a 10 gigabit
ethernet adapter for four us dollars
well gee
that sounds like a way better deal than
this 10 gig adapter from akitio that
costs a whopping 200. i mean why is this
thing even so expensive
well
now that they're both here these
products don't even seem to be in the
same universe as one another the akitio
uses a high speed thunderbolt 3
interface it's got a large
well-ventilated aluminum chassis it's
got a nice premium feel to it including
a removable cable and
we actually haven't tested this yet but
theoretically if we plug it into a
device like oh say a laptop
that was a five four gig file
okay so
10 gig working on a laptop and that's
nice it's bus powered too it doesn't
need any external power adapter
now let's turn our attention to our
deal extreme adapter
this one is made of cheap plastic
with flimsy connectors
and a cable that i think could probably
best be described as flaccid
it's driverless that's pretty nice
but
what in the world could that be
100 megabit per second
let's take that same four gig file
and have a real bad time this doesn't
even make sense why is it going at 20
megabytes a second oh my wifi still
okay
and you're done bud oh boy yeah that's
what we were expecting
literally
slower than wi-fi
so
at this point it's fairly clear that
this product has been misrepresented
by the website that's selling it but the
problem is that by the time you've got
it in your hands to test it
unless you're going to pay you know 25
bucks to ship back a four dollar item
it's a bit too late to find out that
your steal of a deal was just a steal of
your
money
so
how do you differentiate between a scam
like this
and the real thing
before you pull the trigger you know
what i'm going to use this 10 gig
adapter
for my web browsing for the rest of this
video because it's sexy now because
there are cases where you can find
extraordinary value from up-and-coming
manufacturers or on liquidation deals
we're not saying that you should just
dismiss outright anything that seems to
be a bargain we're just saying that your
spidey sense should be tingling and you
need to make sure that you're doing
extra research
so the first thing that we're gonna
check is whether there is blatantly
conflicting information on the product
page check out for example this blender
that's advertised as three horsepower
and 2200 watts for a cool ninety
the problem here is that the most you
can consistently pull from a 120 volt
circuit is about 1500 watts before you
risk tripping a breaker and the
description of the item actually does
correct this misleading title so then in
the case of our adapter here we can
actually see that the title and the
detailed specs below are at the very
least consistent both claiming to be 10
gigabit per second but then getting into
our next tip
if we look closely at the product photos
we can actually see that this adapter is
clearly labeled
fast ethernet which yes young kids out
there is the actual official name for
100 megabit ethernet that is only one
percent of the advertised speed and this
is far from the only example of blatant
mislabeling on sites like this one it's
a very common practice used to lure in
unsuspecting customers there are the
scam sd cards that we recently did a
video on fake brand name fashion goods
cables that are supposedly certified for
apple devices and of course misleading
batteries some of the batteries we found
even used quotation marks in the title
around the capacity and then show the
real capacity in the description below
although i'm pretty sure that real
capacity is probably a load of bunk as
well
it's almost like click bait titles
except in this case you're paying for it
and it's
definitely false advertising
back to our ethernet example though
we've already got enough evidence to
turn us off of this thing but there is
still more for us to learn here
conflicting specifications can be a
surefire way to identify bs
so then we've got that claimed 10
gigabit per second transmission speed
well that's pretty cool but what's also
included here in the description is that
it's usb 2.0 type c
now most people understandably might see
a usb type-c connection and go oh well
that's really modern and fast
but as a tech nerd i know right off the
bat that type c is a physical standard
that can carry all kinds of different
signals and the usb 2.0 protocol isn't
spec for anywhere near 10 gigabit per
second speed actually it tops out around
5 of that
now if you're not so technically
inclined
you might not know or even have the
desire to know what the differences are
between all the usb versions
and that's where our next tip comes in
if you don't know what a specific term
means that doesn't mean it's not
important so google it and this can be
applicable to any marketing terms or
buzzwords because those might not mean
anything at all even if you know less
bondage on your new phone sounds really
enticing back to this specific title
again though if you search up usb 2.0
the first thing that's going to come up
is the wikipedia page for usb and it
shows that usb 2.0's maximum signaling
rate is 480 megabits per second oops
oops the final nail in the coffin here
is actually the model number which we
can see in the photo
remarketing of existing products is
very common on these types of
marketplaces see soldier console so with
a quick google search we find that this
part number actually corresponds to a
realtek ethernet controller that's
designed to run at 10 megabit or 100
megabit speeds now that i think of it we
should probably crack this open and find
out if it's even a proper real tech
controller not yet though we'll get to
that after our last tip you might have
noticed that one thing that we didn't
mention
is user reviews and we'd love to say
that that's a good way to avoid scams
and negative reviews
should be heated for the most part it's
just that they're not the silver bullet
that you might hope fake positive
reviews have become a huge problem even
on reputable online stores like amazon
as for these ones well simply put
they've been well pretty misleading from
our experience this particular item
actually doesn't even have any reviews
yet but deal extreme
shows items with no reviews as having
five filled in stars and that only
changes if our review is submitted all
right anyway we've had our fun now
i think it's time for us to crack this
nut open uh jake what was the plan here
uh
cut stuff i guess so this is cool as
expected
we've got only
four conductors here which tells us that
yes of course this is not going to
transmit anything more than usb 2 speeds
you would need nine conductors for usb 3
and 20 actually yeah how many frames 24
yeah for thunderbolt 3. so
yeah yeah this is clearly
very clearly not anything other than
usb2
yes it is a real tech controller well at
least it's printed as that
so one question you might ask yourself
is if you've only got four conductors
here why do you need this 24 pin
connector on the other end i mean it
just comes down to convenience usb type
c is reversible it's durable and of
course modern devices are switching over
to using it it's just that we're clearly
only using
a couple of pins for the actual data
interface on it so everything else is
just blank it's just not connected to
anything
by contrast let's open up our 10 gigabit
adapter here and this is one whoa
beefy
beefy friggin thing although i gotta say
the design of this chassis is not really
that amazing because there's no
like
heat conduction
yeah
between smaller but yeah i bet you it's
very strong yeah i'm sure it is you
could probably play hockey with it and
then come back and use it as your
adapter
just canadian things
so there it is
if you want 10 gigabit connectivity
you've got to have a 10 gigabit ready
chipset
and of course you've got to have an
interface at the other end that is
actually capable of taking that 10 gig
and transmitting it to something
and you've got to have a way to
dissipate all the heat and whatnot
apparently wow this chip is so gives off
so much heat they've actually got a
thermal pad on the back the ihs here is
almost as wide as this entire board
what's under there not bad d-round
probably or the thunderbolt chipset oh
you're probably right
seems fine
oh man oh god
what the hell kind of thermal pad is
this excellent where's your pointer
thing
i don't know it's in your pocket
i just want to see
oh my god
this is physically oh man is that like
an actual like just bare silicon too
that you're just like i don't think so
no no i think it's on the package oh god
the noises ah stop
just chill just chill it's all good
well i can't read it anyway i'll have to
replace those thermal panels
yeah do you mind jake
i don't think i have much choice
bad noise yeah oh god i hate it
it's so bad sorry i'm sorry
it's like the tech nerd equivalent of
nails on a chalkboard
scratching a microcontroller with a
knife
and i can't read it the markings are
like
what like scratched off with a knife
no
they're just really faint and not like
obvious anyway somehow all like
scratched
all right well here you go
well thanks for the condom
so conclusion time then we know that
four dollars versus two hundred dollars
is a huge gap and this is a pretty
obvious example of seems too good to be
true but the point of making this video
was to go through some of the steps that
you can take for something that isn't
quite as obvious to determine the fake
stuff from the real stuff and we hope
that even if this might not have been
useful for you maybe you can share this
video with someone that you know who has
been hoodwinked before
massdrop and sennheiser have teamed up
to bring us the pc37x gaming headset it
features angled drivers and an open back
design for a nice natural sound and
better stereo imaging and those drivers
actually come from the same family as
the hd598 and hd 600 series headphones
they come with a noise cancelling
microphone and they're available on
massdrop at the link below for just
119.99 for a limited time go check them
out so thanks for watching guys if you
disliked this video you can hit that
button but if you liked it hit like get
subscribed to reconsider checking out
where to buy the stuff we featured at
the link in the video description like
to be very clear as long as you know
what you're getting four bucks is like
four boxes four bucks you need a 100
megabit adapter uh while you're down
there you can check out our merch store
which has cool shirts like this one and
our community forum it's totally worth a
join